# 1    Introduction

At the 10th JVET meeting (April 10–20, 2018, San Diego, US), JVET defined the first draft of Versatile Video Coding (VVC) and the VVC Test Model 1 (VTM1) encoding method. It was decided to include a quadtree with nested multi-type tree using binary and ternary splits coding block structure as the initial new coding feature of VVC. Draft reference software to implement the VTM1 encoding method (and the draft VVC decoding process) has also been developed. At the 11th meeting (10–18 July, 2018, Ljubljana, SI), the Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 2 and the VVC Test Model 2 (VTM2) algorithm description and encoding method were established with the inclusion of a group of new coding features as well as some of HEVC coding elements. At the 12th meeting (3–12 October, 2018, Macao, CN), the Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 3 and the VVC Test Model 3 (VTM3) algorithm description and encoding method were established with the inclusion of additional coding tools that improves the coding performance. From the 13th meeting (9–18 January 2019, Marrakech, MA), the JVET experts start working on the simplification and unification of existing coding technologies, besides the new algorithms for additional coding efficiency. The Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 4 and the VVC Test Model 4 (VTM4) algorithm description and encoding method were established with the inclusion of few more coding tools as well as lots of refinements of existing tools. At the 14th meeting (19–27 March 2019, Geneva, CH), the Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 5 and the VVC Test Model 5 (VTM5) algorithm description and encoding method were established with the inclusion of very small number of new coding tools and a large amount of tool simplifications. The coding of 4:2:2 and 4:4:4 chroma formats are supported as well as 4:2:0 chroma formats. At the 15th meeting (3–12 July 2019, Gothenburg, SE), the Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 6 and the VVC Test Model 6 (VTM6) algorithm description and encoding method were established. The major changes include refinement of existing tools, unification of coding tool combination, and HLS design. Also, some new functionalities, e.g. adaptive resolution change, scalability coding are supported. At the 16th Meeting (1–11 Oct. 2019, Geneva, CH) the Versatile Video Coding (VVC) working draft 7 and the VVC Test Model 7 (VTM7) algorithm description and encoding method were established. The main changes from VTM6 to VTM7 are clean-up and simplifications of existing tools. Only one new tool, names adaptive color transform are added At the 16th Meeting for 4:4:4 color format coding.